---
title: "1.4.0"
draft: false
weight: 64
---

### 1.4.0 Quick Highlight

* [New experimental environment: Tensorflow Serving!](#new-experimental-environment-tensorflow-serving)
* [Configurable Keep-Alive setting](#configurable-keep-alive-setting)
* [Set log level through environment variable](#set-log-level-through-environment-variable)
* [Function get updated if config/secret changes](#function-get-updated-if-config-secret-changes)
* [Enable go module support for go environment](#enable-go-module-support-for-go-environment)

#### New experimental environment: Tensorflow Serving! 

Tensorflow as a widely adopted machine-learning framework, people use it to train their model.
Previously, people have to write a RESTful API server in order to serve requests with trained models.
`Tensorflow Serving`, in the other hand, is an official tool that feature a flexible, high-performance 
serving system for machine learning models, designed for production environments. As long as you put trained model 
at the right directory, the server will load models automatically. However, you still need to take care 
how to deploy it to production and setup proper replicas of Tensorflow Serving pods.  
Fission now makes these things easier. All you have to do is to create a function with archive of model and a route.
Then, Fission will help you to deploy model and scales pods when needed.

For details, see [here](https://github.com/fission/fission/tree/master/examples/tensorflow-serving) and [PR#1212](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1212).

#### Configurable Keep-Alive setting

Previously, due to a known [issue](https://github.com/fission/fission/issues/723#issuecomment-395483957) Fission disabled
Keep-Alive at code-level. Now, you can enable Keep-Alive by setting `ROUTER_ROUND_TRIP_DISABLE_KEEP_ALIVE` to true at router deployment.

Couple things worth to notice:
 
1. This setting increase time for router(s) to switch to newer version for functions use newdeploy as executor type. 
   You can prevent this by setting short grace period (`--graceperiod`) when creating environment.
2. Increase in memory consumption for router to keep all active connections.

For details, see [PR#1225](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1225)

#### Set log level through environment variable

All core components now prints Info-Level and above logs by default. For troubleshooting, you can set env `DEBUG_ENV` to true. 

For details, see [PR#1217](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1217)

#### Function get updated if config/secret changes

Now, a function will get updated when the referenced configmaps/secrets get updated instead of caching stale data.

For details, see [here](../../usage/access-secret-cfgmap-in-function/#updating-secrets-and-configmaps) and [PR#1224](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1224).

#### Enable go module support for go environment

Now, go environment supports `go moudle` as dependencies management solution.

For details, see [here](https://github.com/fission/fission/tree/master/examples/go/module-example) and [PR#1152](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1152).

{{% notice warning %}} 
go module support require fission/go-env-1.12 version and later. 
{{% /notice %}} 
