---
title: "1.6.0"
weight: 62
---

### 1.6.0 Quick Highlight

* [Configurable function level timeout](#configurable-function-level-timeout)
* [Ingress host, path, annotations and TLS support](#ingress-host-path-annotations-and-tls-support)
* [Allow to add annotations to router service in helm chart](#annotations-for-router-service)
* [PodSpec in Environment](#podspec-in-environment)

#### Configurable function-level timeout

Before 1.6, router waits until function returns. In 1.6, a new flag call `--fntimeout` was add to function sub command.
To setup the timeout for functions, use `--fntimeout value, --ft value` when creating/updating the function.
If you functions do not set up function-level timeout before, by default the timeout will be 60 seconds.

```
--fntimeout value, --ft value 

Time duration to wait for the response while executing the function. 
If the flag is not provided, by default it will wait of 60s for the response. (default: 60)
``` 

For details, see [PR#1284](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1284).

#### Ingress host, path, annotations and TLS support

Ingress is a powerful kubernetes built-in resource that allows exposing internal kubernetes services to the public network.
As of now, there are many kinds of ingress controllers list on [webpage](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/#additional-controllers).
However, different vendors support different kinds of format of ingress resource which is not well support by fission before and caused [issue](https://github.com/fission/fission/issues/1158).
To support different vendors more well, in 1.6 CLI adds three new flags that allow you to specify more fields of the ingress resource when creating/updating the HTTP triggers.
Let's see how to use them when creating/updating HTTP triggers.

##### Ingress annotations (`--ingressannotation`)

Add annotations to Ingress requires you to specify them when creating the HTTP trigger. 
If you want to disable TLS auto redirect and enable regular expression matching in [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx),  
you can add annotations like 

```bash
$ fission route create --name foo \
    --url /foo --function foofn --createingress \
    --ingressannotation "nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect=false" \
    --ingressannotation "nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/use-regex=true"
```

**NOTE**: The format of annotation depends on what underlying ingress controller you used.

##### Ingress host rule (`--ingressrule`)

The format of rule is `host=path`, you have to give host and API endpoint path with delimiter `=` between them. 
If the rule is not provided, fission uses path specify by `--url` and allows requests from all hosts.
For example, if you want to expose your function to the path **/foobar** and allow access from all hosts, you can do 

```
$ fission route create --name foobar --method GET --function nodejs --url "/foobar" --createingress --ingressrule "*=/foobar"
```  

which result in

```
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: foobar
  namespace: fission
  ...
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: router
          servicePort: 80
        path: /foobar
```

If you want to limit the accessibility of function to a specific host like, specify the host rule like `--ingressrule "example.com=/foobar"` 

```
spec:
  rules:
  - host: example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: router
          servicePort: 80
        path: /foobar
```  
 
**NOTE**: The format of rule depends on what underlying ingress controller you used.

Take [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) for example, to support wildcard path you need:
 
* Enable regular expression matching by adding annotation to the Ingress. 
* Specify the router URL as `/foo/{bar}` and set path to `/foo/*`. ([Issue](https://github.com/fission/fission/issues/1158))

```bash
$ fission route create --name foo \
        --url /foo/{bar} --function foofn --createingress \
        --ingressannotation "nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/use-regex=true" \
        --ingressrule "*=/foo/*"
```

##### Ingress TLS (`--ingresstls`)

To enable TLS termination, you need to follow the [guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls) to create
secret that contains TLS private key and certificate and specify the secret name when creating HTTP trigger.

```bash
$ fission route create --name foo \
    --url /foo/{bar} --function foofn --createingress \
    --ingressannotation "nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect=false" \
    --ingressannotation "nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/use-regex=true" \
    --ingressrule "*=/foo/*"
    --ingresstls "foobartls"
```

For details, see [PR#1325](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1284) and [PR#1326](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1326).

#### Annotations for router service

On GKE, a **LoadBalancer** type service by default is accessible from the outside of kubernetes cluster. 
But if you instead want to expose service to the applications that use the same VPC network and are located in the same GCP region,
you need to add extra annotation to the Service.

To enable internal LoadBalancer, you need to uncomment the `svcAnnotations` in chart's values.yaml. 

```yaml
router:
  svcAnnotations:
    cloud.google.com/load-balancer-type: Internal
```

For details, see [PR#1338](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1338) and [GKE doc](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/internal-load-balancing).

#### PodSpec in Environment 

**PodSpec** was introduced in Environment that allows users to modify the deployment created by Fission. (Here is a [blog post](https://blog.fission.io/posts/fission_pod_specs/) to demonstrate how to use PodSpec.)
However, there is an [issue](https://github.com/fission/fission/issues/1322) when merging user-defined PodSpec in executor. In 1.6, we fix the problem and now should work as expected.

Things worthy to notice is that the executor merges PodSpec follow the rules:

* Slices are merged and return an error if the elements in the slice have name conflicts. (Containers, Volumes, Ports, Env, VolumeMounts, VolumeDevices)
* Maps are merged, the value in user-defined PodSpec will override the value defined by Fission (if any).
* The rest of type of the fields like pointer, string and int are overridden directly.

Once applying the fission spec, you need to check whether the deployment is as expected.

```bash
$ kubectl -n fission-function get deploy <name> -o yaml 
``` 

If you don't see any deployment is created, it may due to the wrong PodSpec was given. You need to follow the instruction [here](../../trouble-shooting/#core-components) to check executor log for more details.

For details, see [PR#1339](https://github.com/fission/fission/pull/1339) and [blog post](https://blog.fission.io/posts/fission_pod_specs/).
