docs/content/installation/installation.en.md, before:

---
title: "Installation Guide"
draft: false
weight: 20
---

Welcome! This guide will get you up and running with Fission on a
Kubernetes cluster.

### Cluster preliminaries

If you don't have a Kubernetes cluster, [here's a quick guide to set
one up](../kubernetessetup).

Let's ensure you have the Kubernetes CLI and Helm installed and
ready. If you already have helm, [skip ahead to the fission install](#install-fission).

#### Kubernetes CLI

Ensure you have the Kubernetes CLI.

You can get the Kubernetes CLI for OSX like this:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl && chmod +x kubectl && sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin
```

Or, for Linux:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl && chmod +x kubectl && sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin
```

Ensure you have access to a cluster; use kubectl to check your
Kubernetes version:

```sh
$ kubectl version
```

We need at least Kubernetes 1.6 (older versions may work, but we don't
test them).

#### Helm

Helm is an installer for Kubernetes.  If you already use helm, [skip to
the next section](#install-fission).

First, you'll need the helm CLI:

On __OS X__:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-helm/helm-v2.7.0-darwin-amd64.tar.gz

$ tar xzf helm-v2.7.0-darwin-amd64.tar.gz

$ mv darwin-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin
```

On __Linux__:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-helm/helm-v2.7.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz

$ tar xzf helm-v2.7.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz

$ mv linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin
```

Next, install the Helm server on your Kubernetes cluster:

On __Google Kubernetes Engine__ (GKE):

To avoid RBAC related issues on GKE use the following steps to install helm using a dedicated service account.

```sh
$ kubectl create serviceaccount --namespace kube-system tiller

$ kubectl create clusterrolebinding tiller-cluster-rule --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=kube-system:tiller

$ helm init --service-account tiller --upgrade
```

On __Other Kubernetes installations__:

```sh
$ helm init
```

### Install Fission

#### Minikube

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission --set serviceType=NodePort,routerServiceType=NodePort https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-all-0.8.0.tgz
```

The serviceType variable allows configuring the type of Kubernetes
service outside the cluster.  You can use `ClusterIP` if you don't
want to expose anything outside the cluster.

#### Cloud hosted clusters (GKE, AWS, Azure etc.)

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-all-0.8.0.tgz
```

#### Minimal version

The fission-all helm chart installs a full set of services including
the NATS message queue, influxDB for logs, etc. If you want a more
minimal setup, you can install the fission-core chart instead:

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-core-0.8.0.tgz
```

### Install the Fission CLI

#### OS X

Get the CLI binary for Mac:

```sh
$ curl -Lo fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-osx && chmod +x fission && sudo mv fission /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Linux

```sh
$ curl -Lo fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-linux && chmod +x fission && sudo mv fission /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Windows

For Windows, you can use the linux binary on WSL. Or you can download
this windows executable: [fission.exe](https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-windows.exe)

### Run an example

Finally, you're ready to use Fission!

```sh
$ fission env create --name nodejs --image fission/node-env:0.8.0

$ curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fission/fission/master/examples/nodejs/hello.js

$ fission function create --name hello --env nodejs --code hello.js

$ fission function test --name hello
Hello, world!
```

For a compiled language like Go:

```sh
$ fission env create --name go --image fission/go-env:0.8.0 --builder fission/go-builder:0.8.0

$ curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fission/fission/master/examples/go/hello.go

$ fission function create --name gohello --env go --src hello.go --entrypoint Handler

$ fission function test --name gohello
Hello, world!
```

### What's next?

If something went wrong, we'd love to help -- please [drop by the
slack channel](http://slack.fission.io) and ask for help.

Check out the
[examples](https://github.com/fission/fission/tree/master/examples)
for some example functions.

Commit message:

Add step to setup cluster-admin on minikube

docs/content/installation/installation.en.md, after:

---
title: "Installation Guide"
draft: false
weight: 20
---

Welcome! This guide will get you up and running with Fission on a
Kubernetes cluster.

### Cluster preliminaries

If you don't have a Kubernetes cluster, [here's a quick guide to set
one up](../kubernetessetup).

Let's ensure you have the Kubernetes CLI and Helm installed and
ready. If you already have helm, [skip ahead to the fission install](#install-fission).

#### Kubernetes CLI

Ensure you have the Kubernetes CLI.

You can get the Kubernetes CLI for OSX like this:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl && chmod +x kubectl && sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin
```

Or, for Linux:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl && chmod +x kubectl && sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin
```

Ensure you have access to a cluster; use kubectl to check your
Kubernetes version:

```sh
$ kubectl version
```

We need at least Kubernetes 1.6 (older versions may work, but we don't
test them).

#### Helm

Helm is an installer for Kubernetes.  If you already use helm, [skip to
the next section](#install-fission).

First, you'll need the helm CLI:

On __OS X__:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-helm/helm-v2.7.0-darwin-amd64.tar.gz

$ tar xzf helm-v2.7.0-darwin-amd64.tar.gz

$ mv darwin-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin
```

On __Linux__:
```sh
$ curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-helm/helm-v2.7.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz

$ tar xzf helm-v2.7.0-linux-amd64.tar.gz

$ mv linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin
```

Next, install the Helm server on your Kubernetes cluster:

On __Google Kubernetes Engine__ (GKE):

To avoid RBAC related issues on GKE use the following steps to install helm using a dedicated service account.

```sh
$ kubectl create serviceaccount --namespace kube-system tiller

$ kubectl create clusterrolebinding tiller-cluster-rule --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=kube-system:tiller

$ helm init --service-account tiller --upgrade
```

On __Other Kubernetes installations__:

```sh
$ helm init
```

### Install Fission

#### Minikube

Since minikube 0.26.0 the default bootstrapper is kubeadm which enables RBAC by default. For those who work on versions before 0.26.0, please follow the steps below to enable RBAC.

```sh
# For minikube before version 0.26.0
$ minikube start --extra-config=apiserver.Authorization.Mode=RBAC
```

Then, you should see the cluster role `cluster-admin`.

``` sh
$ kubectl get clusterroles cluster-admin
NAME            AGE
cluster-admin   44d
```

Install fission with helm

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission --set serviceType=NodePort,routerServiceType=NodePort https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-all-0.8.0.tgz
```

The serviceType variable allows configuring the type of Kubernetes
service outside the cluster.  You can use `ClusterIP` if you don't
want to expose anything outside the cluster.

#### Cloud hosted clusters (GKE, AWS, Azure etc.)

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-all-0.8.0.tgz
```

#### Minimal version

The fission-all helm chart installs a full set of services including
the NATS message queue, influxDB for logs, etc. If you want a more
minimal setup, you can install the fission-core chart instead:

```sh
$ helm install --namespace fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-core-0.8.0.tgz
```

### Install the Fission CLI

#### OS X

Get the CLI binary for Mac:

```sh
$ curl -Lo fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-osx && chmod +x fission && sudo mv fission /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Linux

```sh
$ curl -Lo fission https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-linux && chmod +x fission && sudo mv fission /usr/local/bin/
```

#### Windows

For Windows, you can use the linux binary on WSL. Or you can download
this windows executable: [fission.exe](https://github.com/fission/fission/releases/download/0.8.0/fission-cli-windows.exe)

### Run an example

Finally, you're ready to use Fission!

```sh
$ fission env create --name nodejs --image fission/node-env:0.8.0

$ curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fission/fission/master/examples/nodejs/hello.js

$ fission function create --name hello --env nodejs --code hello.js

$ fission function test --name hello
Hello, world!
```

For a compiled language like Go:

```sh
$ fission env create --name go --image fission/go-env:0.8.0 --builder fission/go-builder:0.8.0

$ curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fission/fission/master/examples/go/hello.go

$ fission function create --name gohello --env go --src hello.go --entrypoint Handler

$ fission function test --name gohello
Hello, world!
```

### What's next?

If something went wrong, we'd love to help -- please [drop by the
slack channel](http://slack.fission.io) and ask for help.

Check out the
[examples](https://github.com/fission/fission/tree/master/examples)
for some example functions.
