docs/content/usage/trigger.en.md, before:

---
title: "Triggers"
draft: false
weight: 44
---

### Create a HTTP Trigger

An HTTP trigger invokes a function when there is an HTTP request.  

You can specify the relative URL and HTTP method for a trigger:

```
$ fission ht create --url /hello --method GET --function hello
trigger '94cd5163-30dd-4fb2-ab3c-794052f70841' created
```

### Create a Time Trigger

Time-based triggers invoke functions based on time.  They can run once
or repeatedly.  They're specified using [cron string
specifications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron):

```
$ fission tt create --name halfhourly --function hello --cron "*/30 * * * *"
trigger 'halfhourly' created
```

You can also use a friendlier syntax such "@every 1m" or "@hourly":

```
$ fission tt create --name minute --function hello --cron "@every 1m"
trigger 'minute' created
```

And you can list time triggers to see their associated function and cron strings:

```
$ fission tt list
NAME       CRON       FUNCTION_NAME
halfhourly 0 30 * * * hello
minute     @every 1m  hello
```

### Create a Message Queue Trigger

A message queue trigger invokes a function based on messages from an
message queue.  Optionally, it can place the response of a function
onto another queue.

NATS and Azure Storage Queue are supported queues:

```
$ fission mqt create --name hellomsg --function hello --mqtype nats-streaming --topic newfile --resptopic newfileresponse 
trigger 'hellomsg' created
```

You can list or update message queue triggers with `fission mqt list`,
or `fission mqt update`.

Commit message:

Documentation update for ingress, fixes #31

docs/content/usage/trigger.en.md, after:

---
title: "Triggers"
draft: false
weight: 44
---

### Create a HTTP Trigger

An HTTP trigger invokes a function when there is an HTTP request.  

You can specify the relative URL and HTTP method for a trigger:

```
$ fission ht create --url /hello --method GET --function hello
trigger '94cd5163-30dd-4fb2-ab3c-794052f70841' created
```

If you want to create a ingress for the HTTP trigger, you can provide the flag along with the hostname. If the hostname is not provided, it defaults to "*"

```
$ fission ht create --url /hello --method GET --function hello --createingress --host acme.com
trigger '94cd5163-30dd-4fb2-ab3c-794052f70841' created

$ fission route list
NAME                                 METHOD HOST     URL      INGRESS FUNCTION_NAME
94cd5163-30dd-4fb2-ab3c-794052f70841 GET    acme.com /hello   true    hello

```

Please note that for ingress to work, you will have to deploy a ingress controller in your cluster. Kubernetes currently supports and maintains for following ingress controller and you should check documentation of individual ingress controllers for setup.

- [Nginx Ingress Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)
- [GCE Ingress Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-gce)

[F5 networks](http://clouddocs.f5.com/products/connectors/k8s-bigip-ctlr/v1.5/) and [Kong](https://konghq.com/blog/kubernetes-ingress-controller-for-kong/) also offer ingress controllers which are supported and maintained by them.

### Create a Time Trigger

Time-based triggers invoke functions based on time.  They can run once
or repeatedly.  They're specified using [cron string
specifications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron):

```
$ fission tt create --name halfhourly --function hello --cron "*/30 * * * *"
trigger 'halfhourly' created
```

You can also use a friendlier syntax such "@every 1m" or "@hourly":

```
$ fission tt create --name minute --function hello --cron "@every 1m"
trigger 'minute' created
```

And you can list time triggers to see their associated function and cron strings:

```
$ fission tt list
NAME       CRON       FUNCTION_NAME
halfhourly 0 30 * * * hello
minute     @every 1m  hello
```

### Create a Message Queue Trigger

A message queue trigger invokes a function based on messages from an
message queue.  Optionally, it can place the response of a function
onto another queue.

NATS and Azure Storage Queue are supported queues:

```
$ fission mqt create --name hellomsg --function hello --mqtype nats-streaming --topic newfile --resptopic newfileresponse 
trigger 'hellomsg' created
```

You can list or update message queue triggers with `fission mqt list`,
or `fission mqt update`.
